# Search Algorithm Visualisation Tool
This capstone project aims to provide a valuable educational resource for understanding search algorithms by developing a visualisation tool. The software allows users to interactively explore different search algorithms, add obstacles between nodes, and observe the paths generated from a starting point to an endpoint. The primary focus is on uninformed algorithms, but the application also includes Dijkstra’s algorithm, Greedy-Search, and bidirectional search to offer a comprehensive understanding of various search strategies.

# Features
 - **Interactive Visualisation:** Users can interact with a grid of squares representing nodes, add obstacles, and observe the paths generated by different search algorithms.
 - **Multiple Algorithms:** The software includes a variety of search algorithms such as Depth-First Search, Breadth-First Search, Dijkstra’s algorithm, Greedy-Search, and bidirectional search. This allows users to compare and understand the differences between each algorithm's approach.
 - **User-Friendly GUI:** The application features a user-friendly graphical interface designed for easy access and straightforward navigation. This ensures that users, especially students, can interact with the software seamlessly.
 - **Educational Tool:** Designed as an educational tool, this software aims to enhance students' understanding of data structures and algorithms. By providing a visual representation of search algorithms, students can grasp concepts more effectively and apply them to problem-solving scenarios.
 - **Documentation:** The project emphasizes well-documented and maintainable code. This ensures that students can easily comprehend the source code and make any desired adjustments. Additionally, thorough documentation accompanies the software to guide users through its functionalities.

# Feature Improvements:
 - Additional Algorithms: Integrate more search algorithms such as A* algorithm, Best-First Search, and Uniform Cost Search to offer a comprehensive selection for users to explore.
 - Export Functionality: Enable users to export visualizations and analysis results in various formats (e.g., image files, CSV) for further analysis or sharing purposes.
 - Terrain Types: Allow users to customize different terrain types that can impact movement costs and heuristic values.


# How to use:

GitHub Desktop:
 1. Install GitHub Desktop and clone the repository with the URL: ``https://github.com/Luresilon/Viss.git``
 2. Press "Show in Explorer"
 3. Double click on ``viss.exe``

Git Bash:
1. cd into the directory you wish to clone it to.
2. ``git clone https://github.com/Luresilon/Viss.git``
3. cd Viss/src
5. javac Main.java
6. java Main
